DevOps is the combination of cultural philosophies, practices, and tools that increases an organization's ability to deliver applications and services at high velocity: evolving and improving products at a faster pace than organizations using traditional software development and infrastructure management processes.

DevOps are one team and own the application containing both developers and operations within a common language.
The developers want to provide the latest features, quick changes and with in risk.
The operation want to keep the product in stability, reliability, be repeatable and with cautious changes. 

DevOps applies across people, processes and technology
DevOps brings about major cultural and organizational changes while leveraging the power of automation and cloud computing.
DevOps is not specific to any industry or market: its practices can be leveraged across big and small companies.

Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC)
Waterfall was adapted from construction and manufacturing. 
• Changes in design are prohibitively more expensive. 
• It requires each stage of design to be 100% correct before moving onto the 
next.
Waterfall Model:
Requirement Analysis -> System Design -> Implementation -> Testing -> Deployment -> Maintenance

Agile methodology is collaborative across teams and self-organizing. The longer and more dynamic a project is, the more waterfall models no longer work. Agile is more adaptable.
5 phases of Agile:
Forming - Storming - Norming - Performing - Adjourning

There is a iteration loop continues 2-3 months each time for the product but the loop will continue again and again:
Planning - Req Analysis - Designing - Building - Testing

SRE - Site Reliablity Engineers
SRE is a software engineering approach to IT operations. SRE teams use software as a tool to manage systems, solve problems, and automate operations tasks. SRE helps teams find a balance between releasing new features and making sure that they are reliable for users. SRE supports teams who are moving from a traditional approach to IT operations to a cloud-native approach.


